---
layout: post
title: Ain't too proud to gondola
published: true
---
#### Day 50: Gunnison, CO to Montrose, CO<br/>July 5, 2011

Despite waking up early, we didn't get on the road until 7 and had a chilly
first hour or two of riding. It was nice and flat as we rode along the Blue
Mesa Reservoir. The landscape looked a little like southern Utah--there were
brown pinnacles that looked like the hoodoos from Bryce Canyon.  In Sapinero we
started the first of two climbs. Neither was too steep and the surroundings
were really beautiful--streams, distant snow-capped mountains, and green hills
and mesas with funny names (Poverty Mesa, Coal Hill). What wasn't so nice was
the narrow road with no bike lane, a soft shoulder (basically a pile of sand
and rocks), and extremely discourteous / oblivious RV drivers.  One
particularly clueless RV driver (note: it was one of those huge RVs that is the
size of a double decker bus) actually drove us off the road and into the
shoulder. Hillary's front wheel stalled in the pile of sand and we had our
first fall of the trip. No injuries other than a slightly scraped knee and a
feeling of extreme frustration. The RV didn't even slow down but the car behind
it stopped immediately and two people flew out and offered to help us. We told
them we were fine and they still waited a few minutes to make sure.  After a
picnic lunch in Cimmaron (the town is a gas station) we did our third climb of
the day and then literally coasted all the way into Montrose. It was a nice end
to the day, especially with more storms looming to the south. Despite three
hills, we lost almost 2,000 feet of elevation since leaving Gunnison. In
Montrose we showered, made and ate some 'dillas, and went to sleep.

* Start: Gunnison, CO
* End: Montrose, CO
* Slept: motel
* Miles: 64.3
* Avg: 10.5


#### Day 51: Montrose, CO to Placerville, CO<br/>July 6, 2011

We hit up the motel breakfast before setting off. It's always funny when the
other guests stare at us in the motel lobby as we make ourselves 4 packets of
oatmeal. Each. We had a nice morning of riding; gradual uphill all the way to
Ridgway. Big snow-capped mountains all around, green hills, wildflowers,
streams. Ridgway had a really nice bike path along the river leading into the
middle of town from a few miles out.  We stopped at a bike shop and were
assured that the climb up to Dallas Divide wasn't too bad so we decided to
press on. We swung by the grocery store and a woman out front told us all about
Ridgway. Fun facts: the original movie True Grit was filmed here, they've left
many roads unpaved in an effort to retail the cowboy feel, and Ralph Lauren's
ranch is outside of town. We didn't see him, but did see the Double RL Ranch.
As reported, Dallas Divide was not a bad climb. 2,000 feet over 11 miles with a
nice wide shoulder. The bonus was that the ride down the other side was a
delightful downhill for 13 miles all the way to Placerville. We had talked to
Carrie, a warmshowers person in Telluride, about possibly staying with her
tonight but decided to stop in Placerville for the night. We stopped in town
for sandwiches and asked the cashier about camping nearby. She told us about
some BLM sites but also mentioned that her landlord lets cyclists camp on her
land in exchange for some help around the property.  We found Angela's place
easily and she offered us the choice of camping or sleeping inside her garage /
cabin. She didn't ask for help with anything but Andrew offered to shovel a
bunch of dirt back into a hole. She has a funky house on 3 acres of land right
along the river and two pretty dogs who like to chase river rafters. After
shoveling, showering, and talking with Angela for a while, we retired to the
garage / cabin for dinner and bed.

* Start: Montrose, CO
* End: Placerville, CO
* Slept: "camped" in Angela's garage / cabin
* Miles: 52.2
* Avg: 10.5


#### Day 52: Placerville, CO to Rico, CO<br/>July 7, 2011

We left Angela's before she was up and stopped at the town park to use the
bathrooms and eat some brex before heading toward Telluride. It was a slow
gradual uphill most of the 14 miles to the turnoff. We weren't sure whether we
should go into the town of Telluride or not. It's 4 miles off route and we
weren't really due for a short / rest day. We were standing at the turnoff for
Telluride debating what to do when a car pulled over and yelled "are you
Andrew?" It was Carrie, the warmshowers person we didn't stay with and she gave
us some great advice.  We took the bike path into Telluride, discovered that it
is as beautiful as everyone claims, hung out for a bit, and then took the free
gondola (with our bikes) up to Mountain Village. This cut off about 2 miles and
the steepest part of the afternoon climb--excellent advice from Carrie! From
the top of the gondola, we rode another 10 miles up to Lizard Head Pass (elev:
10,222 feet).  About 2 miles from the summit it started to rain. The hail
started just as we reached the top and pulled into the tiny covered picnic
area. We put on all of our cold weather gear -- arm and leg warmers, long
sleeve jerseys, windbreakers, long sleeved gloves -- and watched the rain,
hail, and lightning from the tiny shelter. We waited almost an hour for the
worst of the storm to pass before heading down. It looked like there was more
rain ahead but sitting in wet clothes at 10,000+ feet was just making us colder
and colder.  The 12 miles down from Lizard Head were freezing. Probably not the
coldest we've ever been, but close. Our fingers and feet were completely numb
and Hillary was shivering a ton. It rained or hailed all the way down. Our body
temperatures and the rain made us decide to stop in Rico, 10 miles short of
what we'd planned. Turns out, we couldn't have gone on if we'd wanted to. The
fire department and police were closing the road when we pulled in and it's
still closed now (3.5 hours later). Apparently a local blew off his hand
building homemade fireworks / bombs and then drove himself to the gas station
for help. He was airlifted out but his car and house are blocked off until the
bomb squad arrives from somewhere in New Mexico. The whole town is out in the
middle of the highway watching, and there is a line or cars and semis all the
way through town.  We got a room at a nice, rustic lodge, took the greatest hot
showers ever, and went to a restaurant down the street for bison burgers and
chili. We talked to a BMW mechanic from Oklahoma for an hour before heading to
bed.

* Start: Placerville, CO
* End: Rico, CO
* Slept: lodge
* Miles: 41.8
* Avg: 8.5

Photos: on the bike path into Ridgway, heading up Dallas Divide, gondola in Telluride, Lizard Head Pass and all it's glory, bomb scare!

<iframe src="https://www.flickr.com/photos/123683527@N06/13921804142/in/set-72157644168304005/player/" width="500" height="375" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen oallowfullscreen msallowfullscreen></iframe>
