---
layout: post
title: Wah Wah
published: true
---
We've been remiss in posting due to long days, uninspiring surroundings, and a
lack of Internet access. But we're back! A special Bon voyage to Shauna as she
heads to China! And to Ariela and Andrew on their bike trip in Scotland!

#### Day 64: Cedar City, UT rest day<br/>July 19, 2011

We took the day off here to rest our derrières and take care of some important
errands before entering the Nevada desert. Did some laundry, stocked up on
important food items (important these days means Clif Bars, almonds, and fancy
peanut butter).  The kind people at Walmart wrongfully accused us of
shoplifting. It's great. We are quite ready for a new state.

#### Day 65: Cedar City, UT to Milford, UT<br/>July 20, 2011

Today was a day of awkward kindness. On the way out of Cedar City, we passed a
day rider going in the opposite direction. He turned around, rode with us for a
while and asked a series of appropriate, but VERY awkwardly delivered
questions.  We had a very gradual climb and then a nice downhill into
Minersville where we stopped for an early picnic lunch under a giant pavilion
in the town park. A big Canadian goose squawked at us a lot. Then, a guy came
out of the house across the street, yelled "Do you want some cold watermelon?",
dropped a huge tub of watermelon with 2 plates and a fork on the table, turned
around and went back inside. It was so nice of him but so weird that he didn't
even stop to talk with us.  The remaining 17 miles were easy except for the
millions of giant grasshoppers on the road that kept jumping up and landing on
us as we rode by. Millions of them. It felt biblical. When we crossed on to
newly paved asphalt we could see them on the ground and aim better; crunch,
crunch, crunch.  In Milford, we thought we'd eat dinner at the chinese food
diner but when we discovered the boast on the menu that "we use salt and MSG in
all of our dishes," we opted for Subway sandwiches. Surprisingly, this was only
our 3rd visit to Subway, and it's already getting a little old. After dinner we
reorganized our bags so we can carry extra water tomorrow.

* Start: Cedar City, UT
* End: Milford, UT
* Slept: motel
* Miles: 58.8
* Avg: 11.7


#### Day 66: Milford, UT to Baker, NV<br/>July 21, 2011

After a mediocre night's sleep (due to the television in the motel room
spontaneously turning itself on at full volume throughout the night) we got an
early start for our longest no-services day. There are 84 miles between Milford
and our destination with no services or water.  From Milford we began the first
of 3 climbs, each about 1,500 feet. The first one was nice and gentle and
dropped us into the Wah Wah Valley. It was pretty bleak and we lamented our
surroundings by channelling Dave Neway and making sad trombone "Wah Wah" sounds
all the way across the valley.  The rest of the day was more of the same. The
elevation profile of Nevada looks like a child's drawing of waves. Up down up
down. That's what we did all day. Baker has a cafe where we ate dinner and some
delicious pumpkin chocolate chip cookies.

* Start: Milford, UT
* End: Baker, NV
* Slept: motel
* Miles: 83.9
* Avg: 8.7
* Notes: Wah Wah. We saw 1 tree today!


#### Day 67: Baker, NV to Ely, NV<br/>July 22, 2011

Second verse, same as the first! Today was like a repeat of yesterday, only
with a really, really horrible headwind for a lot of the day. Are we there yet?
Right after Baker we got on Route 50 ("the loneliest road in America") which we
will take most of the way home. When the map said "63 miles no services" it was
a little bit of a lie. Halfway between Baker and Ely is a bar. Just what a
cyclist needs! We had a lot of thumbs up signs out of car windows today. And a
couple stopped and offered us Gatorade. It was nice.  We got some groceries
when we got to Ely, showered, and ate a huge dinner. Not sure if it's the heat,
the long days, or what, but our voracious appetites are back. We are both
suffering from conflicting desires: wanting to get to San Francisco as soon as
possible and wanting to take enough time to make the trip as pleasant as
possible.

* Start: Baker, NV
* End: Ely, NV
* Slept: motel
* Miles: 62.7
* Avg: 7.5

Photos: entering the Wah Wah Valley, in the Wah Wah Valley, a tree! (only one all day), another nameless valley, Nevada!

<iframe src="https://www.flickr.com/photos/123683527@N06/13921848581/in/set-72157644113831692/player/" width="500" height="375" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen oallowfullscreen msallowfullscreen></iframe>
