---
layout: post
title: It's casual--11,312 feet
published: true
tags: NYC2SF
---
#### Day 47: Maysville, CO to Gunnison, CO<br/>July 2, 2011

We previously swore off camping but it's so much better up here. The cool
nights mean you can bundle up in a sleeping bag rather than lie on top of it
while sweating profusely. It was windy when we woke up but died down by the
time we left Maysville. 12 miles further and ~3,000 feet higher we crossed the
continental divide at Monarch Pass (elev: 11,312). Yippee! We're on the Pacific
side! (We searched and searched but couldn't find the river that flows both
ways that a woman at the visitor center was asking everyone about.)  The climb
was quite nice. Definitely long and slow but the grade was reasonable (6%) and
the views were spectacular. We can now confirm that the rumors are true:
despite being much taller, the Rockies are a much nicer bike ride than the
Appalachians and even the Ozarks. This felt challenging, but what bicycling is
supposed to feel like. The Appalachians felt like we were sitting in a steam
room and someone was punching our thighs. Also, large mountains dotted with
Alpines are a much nicer view than crushing poverty. Just sayin'.  After some
photos and lunch at the top, we dropped down the other side. It wasn't
freakishly steep like the descent from the Blue Ridge Parkway, but it was long
and steep enough that we had to stop to rest our hands a few times. After 10-12
miles it flattened out and was gently downhill / flat to Gunnison. Some nasty
winds picked up in the afternoon and we later learned that strong westerly
winds are a daily occurrence and we should get early starts to avoid them.
Gunnison is a small mountain town with everything we could need. We spent the
night with another warmshowers person. Dan is our age and the veteran of 2 bike
tours (Austin to Anchorage and Reno to San Diego). Also, his job is to run
sleep studies (Hillary worked at a sleep lab in college). He was very
hospitable and we had a very restful night.

* Start: Maysville, CO
* End: Gunnison, CO
* Slept: warmshowers house
* Miles: 55.1
* Avg: 9.6


#### Day 48 and 49: Gunnison, CO<br/>July 3 - July 4, 2011

We decided to take a few days off in Gunnison. We have a number of non-serious
injuries /ailments which will no doubt benefit from a rest, plus, we're finally
in a place where we would actually want to spend some extra time and its pretty
cheap here. And, we are several days ahead of schedule. Hillary (and sometimes
Andrew) has had intermittent knee pain, and 2 fingers on Hillary's right hand
are numb, rendering her right hand humorously weak (known to some as Handlebar
Palsy, it is temporary and is alleviated by taking a few days off and/or
frequent changing of hand positions while cycling).  Not wanting to overstay
our welcome, we moved from Dan's house to The Seasons Inn on the main drag
where the owner gave us a good deal. We spent the next two days walking around
town, eating at a small cafe, reading books (!!), grocery shopping, and
generally laying low.  Gunnison goes all out for July 4th. This year marked the
60th anniversary of it's fireworks show and the festivities were a 2 minute
walk from out hotel. We walked over to the fair for some bluegrass music, a
pulled pork sandwich, and some pie (obviously). The fireworks don't start until
9:15 so we'll probably be asleep for them....Seriously, that is past our
bedtime these days.

Photos: campsite in Maysville, Monarch Pass, mountains from the pass, Beans, Gunnison fourth of July fair

<iframe src="https://www.flickr.com/photos/123683527@N06/13944907165/in/set-72157644113977952/player/" width="500" height="375" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen oallowfullscreen msallowfullscreen></iframe>
